At this point, many of you may
be wondering, what about the UI?
But I mean, if I wanna change the font
size, if I wanna add paddings,
because everything looks terrible
on my app at this point, okay?
So let's start with padding.
So let me tell you this.
On Flutter, not everything, but
most of the things are widgets.
It's heavily based on widget.
And I'm not sure if you're going to like
this the first time you see that, okay?
But if I wanna add a padding to
the TextField, so this TextField, okay?
So I wanna add a padding to the TextField.
How would you do that?
With a padding widget.
So I need to wrap the TextField into
a widget that has a name padding.
So if I click here, now I have
a padding with a child of a TextField.
So the padding is like having
in HTML a padding element, okay?
So you wrap your elements
in the padding elements.
So that's why it gets big and big and
big because there are already pads.
So if I save now, we should see a padding.
By default, it's creating,
it's not actually a property.
Sometimes we say a widget property, but
it's actually the widget constructor.
We're calling the widget constructor.
And these are actually
arguments to that constructor.
So here it says all the paddings,
all the edges at 8, I can say 24.
And this is expressed in
something similar CSS pixels.
So it's independent from the resolution.
So it's like saying 24 px in CSS, okay?
So you can see now it's better.
Instead of all,
there are other options here.
You can say only, and now you pick,
for example, only top.
Here you have all the options,
bottom, right.
Because there are a column there,
it means that's a named argument, okay?
And it's optional because
it's not forcing me.
So now it's only at the right,
and here I can add more,
the top, and also the left as well.
Okay, makes sense?
What if you want a padding also to the row
or to each children, well, a child?
Let's go with the row.
Click here, I'm adding a padding.
Save, and now everything has a padding.
What about font size?
Well, actually font
size is another widget.
So that's why I said not
everything is a widget.
In that case, we need to talk to,
in this case, the text and
see if we have more possible
arguments in the constructor, okay?
And you can actually ask for
all the possibilities here.
And there is one that says style.
That is of type TextStyle.
So let's see, TextStyle is another class.
Everything is a class.
So TextStyle is another class that has
a lot of possibilities, such a fontSize.
So I will say fontSize 24.
If I say,
now you see a much large hello, not,
there is a const Text, okay,
with exclamation mark.
Why is this complaining here?
Because the TextStyle is not changing.
So it's asking me to add const.
If I add a trailing comma to the arguments
here, it will put this in different lines.
And because it gets really messy,
the ID tried to help adding these hints.
These are actually not comments.
They are not part of
the actual source code.
It's saying here we are closing the text.
Here we are closing the row.
Here we are closing the padding.
So you know where you are, okay?
Does it make sense?
Any question at this point, yeah?
>> Can you apply the TextStyle to, say,
you got a bunch of stuff in the row?
>> Well, so let's say I wanna
apply the same style here.
So you need to say style, and
yeah, you can copy and paste, but
we don't like copy and pasting, right?
So this is just a function build.
We are returning something, so
we can write content before the return.
So we can create the variable and
call this greetStyle or
something like that, and do this,
and then use greetStyle.
So we can create variables here
because this is just a function.
So the build is just a function, okay?
Something like this,
then we add a trailing comma,
like so, and greetStyle.
It's fine, what's going on?
>> It could be a constant.
>> It says give me a forward constant.
Now, it's probably complaining
here because it's a variable.
I think that's the issue.
It's not a constant here?
Yeah, you were right.
Because it's a variable,
the style might change.
And now I'm reusing the same style.
And of course, this is just something.
And now we can go back to the const here,
something that
you can put on a separate class with all
your styles, and then just use them.
So you can use OOP here.
So if you wanna emulate CSS classes,
you could do something like this,
put these objects, colors.
For colors, we have other place, actually.
But for these objects that you
wanna reuse along your app,
you can create your own
repository of this.
This is an object of type TextStyle, so
you can put them in a container,
and then reuse them.
So have in mind that there is a return.
So you can do a lot of stuff
before the return, but
the return is just one expression.
So everything here is one expression.
So you cannot do a lot of stuff within
the return, such as creating variables.
Surely, you need to do
that before the return.
>> The state of state management in
Flutter mirrors React in a lot of ways.
It's been one of my biggest struggles
in building out Flutter apps.
>> Yeah, it's copying that model.
But to be honest, it's copying
the React model prehooks, okay?
So it's actually how it was prehooks.
On React now, you have hooks, and
you don't use that setState anymore,
you use useState.
And Flutter is not upgrading to that part.
Flutter is still heavily
based in classes and OOP.
So it's actually mimicking that situation,
but it's a design pattern.
So as any new paradigm that you learn,
any new design pattern that you learn,
it takes some time for
your brain to make the connections
actually until you make the click.
And you say, okay, I got it.
And now you understand what's going on,
okay?
So it will take time if this is
the first time you are dealing with this
pattern of having a state-based
UI component, okay?
Cool, well, now that we've done
that little widget that was
just to understand the basics of widgets,
and
also the basics of a stateful
widget versus a stateless widget.
Have in mind this works on iOS and
Android.
So I don't have a need to now go and
test on Android and iOS.
So you should be confident enough that
this will work on all the platforms,
they're exactly the same.
Because remember that they're not using
the UI kits from each operating system.
It's the same engine that is rendering
the same app on every platform.
So unless you are using plugins, that's
something that we will mention later,
there is no need for all the time
to test this on all the platforms.
I mean, if you're happy with testing
on Chrome, you're good to go.
Of course, at the end, you can try on
iOS and Android, but just pick one for
testing and keep it.
I think that probably
the Chrome is the fastest one.
I mean, the hot reload is faster here, but
it's not a big deal anyway on
the other emulator for this one.